♪♪
Why are we back down here
in the hole?
Maybe, if we remember
where we came from,
we'll appreciate
how far we've come.
That's real deep. You miss
watching the shoes, don'tcha?
So much.
Like 'em!
Riles, it's possible that
these here high schoolers
may not appreciate your
delightful quirkiness.
But you do.
Yes.
(gasps) Love 'em!
You're better
than that, Naomi.
People don't like it
when you give them good advice.
Wanna know what
we're gonna do now?
We're gonna go to class now.
That's how embarrassed I am.
You're right. Academics are
the number one priority
in high school.
(phone beeps)
He's breaking up
with me by text?
Who does that?
(many phones beeping)
Methinks it's possible
high school isn't only
about our studies.
Is it just me,
or is everybody up here a tad
on the dramatic side today?
Aah!
(crying loudly)
(plays Jazz saxophone)
-Somewhere safe?
-Let's run.
(girls sobbing)
You knew
Jake and I used to date.
I did know it.
I actually went after him
just for that reason.
I didn't even like him.
I just wanted
to make you feel bad.
(girl crying)
This stall is taken
for my emotions.
What is going on here?
It's Breakup Monday,
you two baby butterflies.
Butterflies.
She knows us, Maya.
Who you calling butterflies?
We are proud
middle-school survivors.
Middle school. A clear lake
of untroubled spring water.
High school is a bathroom
full of these train-wrecks.
Is it just me,
or is everybody up here a tad
on the dramatic side today?
Aah!
Oh, she's here.
You seem very wise.
What is your name?
-I'm Sage.
-Oh, come on.
What's Breakup Monday, Sage?
In high school, you'll start
going to Friday night parties.
Someone will smile at you,
you'll smile back,
you are in love.
Love is forever.
Love is till Monday.
Who hurt you?
Why Monday?
So everyone can have
a full week of drama
until the next party.
-Why?
-Because they love that more.
(sobbing) Alan!
Yeah. Alan!
Why would anybody love this?
We would never put ourselves
in a position of drama.
Explain your current situation.
-I like a boy.
-I like the same boy.
Your friendship is over.
That could never
happen to us.
Why not?
Because there's
no friendship like ours.
I can't believe we were
ever best friends.
But we are
best friends, Peaches.
-Thunder!
-No!
Stupid rings are for stupid
girls who haven't grown up.
Well, I've grown up.
-(splash)
-Girl: Nice shot.
I wish I never knew you.
I wish you never crawled
through my bedroom window.
Well, that could be anybody.
-Thunder!
-Lightning!
Yeah, this ain't
about the weather.
You like the same boy.
You have to make a decision.
(theme music playing)
♪ I've been waiting ♪
♪ For a day ♪
♪ Like this to come ♪
♪ Struck like lightning ♪
♪ My heart's beating like
a drum ♪
♪ On the edge ♪
♪ Of something wonderful ♪
♪ Face to face with changes ♪
♪ What's it all about? ♪
♪ Life is crazy ♪
♪ But I know ♪
♪ I can work it out ♪
♪ 'Cause I got you ♪
♪ To live it with me ♪
♪ I feel all right,
I'm gonna take on the world ♪
♪ Light up the stars,
I've got some pages to turn ♪
♪ I'm singing "Go-o-o" ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh ♪
♪ Take on the world,
take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world,
take on the world ♪
♪ Take on the world ♪
We need to make a decision.
You've been to
the bathroom, haven't you?
I'm never going back in there.
I don't care what happens.
Farkle and I have let this
go on too long.
It's 'cause your pain is
hilarious to us.
But we're not gonna lose each
other over this.
What if someone gets hurt?
Oh, somebody's getting hurt.
But I've been saying all along,
if you guys aren't gonna be
honest with each other,
everybody gets hurt.
(bell rings)
Yay, school's over.
Nope, we have art class.
That's the one I like.
That's the one
that likes you.
What's the one I don't like?
All of the other ones.
That's the one.
Art class. This is you, Maya.
Today, we finish our
first paintings,
and Mr. Jackson gets to see
how talented you are.
I hope so, Riles.
-And you, too.
-No.
I'm just hoping
to create a positive
working relationship with him.
What is that, a cat?
And it's over.
The assignment was to paint
a photorealistic
representation...
-Uh-huh, uh-huh.
-...of the benches
in Central Park.
Nothing changes.
You painted a cat.
-The cat's on a bench!
-I don't see the bench.
I will cut my ear off
right now.
Well, I admire
your passion, Ms. Matthews.
If I'm any kind of a teacher,
I'll get you to keep both
your ears,
and I will teach you there's
a world beyond purple cats.
Stop it.
Besides, art is not my thing.
Art is her thing.
Take a look at that.
Yeah.
That is not who you are.
I mean, what is that, splotches?
You threw some paint
on there, did you?
What is this supposed
to be, I wonder?
"What is this supposed
to be, I wonder?"
Is that how you
address genius?
I painted what I'm feeling.
What's wrong with that?
What's wrong with it
is I don't know what
you're trying to say.
What are you trying to say?
-I don't know.
-I think you do.
-What are you trying to say?
-She has plenty to say.
Good, start talking.
Why'd you deviate
from the assignment?
I-- I didn't mean to.
Of course she meant to.
Maya does what Maya wants.
Maya does what Maya wants
because she's a true artist.
Why'd you pick that bench?
I don't know. I just did.
Well, clearly,
it influenced you.
What are your
influences, Ms. Hart?
Why are you
the way you are?
When I look at this picture,
this is what comes out.
I'm sorry you don't like it.
What? Maya, no,
you're not sorry.
Since when have you
been sorry about anything?
Mr. Jackson, she's a rebel,
and you're going to love her.
Ms. Matthews, I'm sure
Ms. Hart can speak for herself.
Come on.
Who are your influences?
-What do you mean?
-Artists have influences.
Sometimes those influences
can help them to discover
their own unique voice.
And sometimes those influences,
eh, turn you into a copycat.
Maya isn't
influenced by anybody.
-Are you?
-Whatever you say.
Uh-huh. Because...
you'll never be a true artist
unless you're true to yourself.
So, who are you?
She dances on teachers' desks,
she's the queen of detention,
she's the president
of Mayaville.
Yeah, remember that?
Yeah, Maya, that seems
like a long time ago.
It does.
Maybe, I don't know
who I am yet.
Well, you're gonna need to know
if you want to succeed
in this class, understood?
Maya has always known
who Maya is.
Yeah? I can't tell from this.
Because of that, I'm not gonna
give it a grade right now.
I'm gonna call it... incomplete.
'Cause that's what
this says about you.
What just happened in art?
Forget that. We need
to figure out this Lucas thing.
Forget that, we need
to figure out this Maya thing.
What-- There's no
Maya thing. I'm the same
Maya I've always been.
The Maya you've always been
would take nothing from nobody.
He went after your art.
Maya, your art
is who you are.
The guy went after who you are.
Do you think it should just
be us who decides about Lucas?
Why do you keep on changing
the subject? The subject is you.
Because I think that Lucas
should decide too.
I think it should be all of us.
I'm going to take Lucas.
-What?
-What are you
gonna do about it?
I liked him first,
he's my boyfriend,
and I don't think
that you should have
anything to do with him.
What are you gonna
do about that?
Now that I've heard you say it,
do you think I've been selfish?
What?
You can't have him, he's mine.
What are you gonna
do about that?
I don't want you
to think of me like that.
I think of you as somebody
who would never let me say
what I'm saying to you!
I think of you as somebody
who would fight for what
she believed in.
Even me. Especially fight me.
Maya, if you like Lucas,
then you're gonna have
to take him from me.
-You'd let me?
-No!
No, I wouldn't!
You know why?
Because you taught me that.
You taught me that.
-Maya.
-Yeah?
Where are you?
What?
Where did you go?
How am I supposed to choose
between two people I care about?
You have to.
Well, how do I live with
myself if I hurt Riley or Maya?
I know who I'd choose.
You've thought
about this before?
-Yeah.
-I don't want you
thinking about it.
Then I won't.
Okay, stop.
Who would you choose?
-Riley.
-You would?
I like Riley. I'd choose Riley
and I'd be happy with Riley.
-You would?
-Yes.
Decision over, it's Riley.
Or... I'd choose Maya.
What?
Yeah, yeah, I like Maya.
I'd choose Maya
and I'd be happy with Maya.
Okay, what's going on?
Farkle, you get a reading?
No significant difference
in facial expression
or tone of voice.
He has actually
not made a decision yet.
There may be no
scientific way to do this.
I have a way.
How do you have a way
if I don't have a way?
Because I know it will
upset you, so I have a way.
-And it's good.
-Okay, well, what is it?
You're gonna let
jelly beans decide my future?
Oh, who else is supposed
to decide your future, you?
Okay.
Let's start with personality.
Which girl makes you laugh?
Oh, okay, well, Riley's
the goofiest person I know.
She makes me laugh
50 times a day.
(whistles)
But, I also laugh
when Maya "hu-hurrs" me
and calls me "Huckleberry"
50 times a day.
Which girl would you rather
have a deep conversation with?
That night in the library
with Riley.
I could have sat there
talking with her forever.
But then, there was Maya
and that campfire.
All right, we need
a deciding question.
Something deep and meaningful
and reveals your true soul.
Which girls makes you
feel "bluoylalaloo"?
-No.
-Yes.
-Why?
-I need to hear you say it.
Riley?
Bloylalaloo.
Not even close.
-Maya?
-Bloylalaloo.
You have to mean it,
for real.
How do they make you feel?
Lucas, think about
both of them. Riley and Maya.
Bloylalaloo!
I never want to do that again.
Look, I don't believe
in coincidence.
I believe coincidence
is the universe's way
of telling you something.
And what are the odds
that one day on the subway
Riley falls into my lap?
It's always been Riley.
It's always been
Riley since day one.
-So, you're decided.
-Yeah.
-Except...
-What?
...it was Maya who pushed her.
It was Maya who did that
for Riley because that's
who Maya is.
Okay then. Good experiment.
Except this isn't
about jelly beans.
It's about us, Lucas.
All right, this decision could
change who we all are together.
So, make it
a good one, all right?
Lucas, I know it's impossible
to choose between both
of them.
I mean, I couldn't.
But you have to.
For the good
of all of us. Choose.
Fix her!
I don't need to be fixed.
-You know who says that?
-Who?
Somebody who needs to be fixed.
Fix her!
What's wrong with her?
She's been getting
good grades,
she's behaving
all over the place.
What is that?
Well, we like to believe
that we've helped contribute
to the perfectly civilized
lovely young lady we see
sitting before us.
It's Maya.
Oh, yeah. We broke her.
Yeah, I shouldn't be here.
This is about my daughter.
I need you to look at them.
Yeah, okay, look.
Whatever this is,
it is awfully kind of you
to pretend you need me,
but she has you!
You have the best.
Okay, see you in a month.
Don't forget to eat.
Uh, sit down.
Right. See how good they are?
I wish they'd
take me in, too.
We've got a problem.
I see twins.
Why is that a problem?
We only raise Rileys.
Katy, I need you to be
a strong parent here--
Ha! Sorry.
Okay. Can you play
a strong parent?
I'm gonna cast you
in the role of "strong parent."
Maya...
That's all I've got.
Is there more than one line?
I never get more than one line.
Do you have a script?
It's an improv.
-Go.
-Ooh. Oh, man. All right.
Uh, someone yell out a place.
North Pole!
What are you doing?
I wanna see
what she does with it.
Oh, gee.
I'm sorry I haven't been able
to get you very many toys, Maya.
And I realize that Santy Claus
and his family
live right down
the street here
and they have all the toys
in the world, dont'cha know.
And they'd be only too happy
to give them all to you,
you betcha.
But you're not supposed
to be there all the time.
-Why not?
-Cory!
Well, why shouldn't she
be allowed to visit?
-Has she been
a good little girl?
-Cory!
Oh, I think she's
a better little girl
when she visits you, yeah.
Then she should be allowed
to visit all the time.
Oh-ho! Me too!
(clapping)
Katy, you really are
very good, you know that?
Oh... Tell somebody.
How was I?
You were you.
Thanks.
You... have not been you.
Come back.
Guys, you've always
been there for me.
I'm a teenager.
No teenager
knows who they are.
Maya, I know who you are.
Even your art teacher
says that this isn't you.
Wait a second,
you're having a problem in art?
How is that possible?
Well, he said that he wanted
to know who her influences were.
People change people.
Secret of blah blah blah.
And those influences help you
become who you are.
It's why we choose
our friends carefully.
And good influences
are only good influences
when they help you
find you.
-I am me.
-Yeah?
What'cha wearing, you?
-You love what I'm wearing.
-Of course I love what
you're wearing, Maya.
I'm wearing it, too.
Ever since I can remember,
I've always wanted to be you.
Why?
Because.
You were always stronger
than me, and now you
just proved it.
How?
Maya, I only talked about it,
but you actually did it.
You became me.
Riley, just because I'm wearing
an outfit similar to yours
doesn't make me you.
Hair.
Just because I'm wearing my hair
like you today
-it doesn't make me you.
-Maya.
Clothes and hair, big deal!
Name me one thing of real
significance that you and I
share in common
that has to do with
the inside, that affects
us emotionally?
(singing to herself)
La, la, la...
Why are you--
Why are you doing that?
'Cause you can't get
past hair and clothes, can you?
Riley, I'm me! I've always
been me, I'm always gonna be me!
Nothing's gonna change that!
Lucas.
La...
It's not just Lucas.
What, there's more?
Maya, you haven't stood on
a teacher's desk or been in
detention for a long time.
You sold your house
in Mayaville and you
moved to Rileytown.
-I must like it.
-Go home.
What's wrong with us both
liking a nice guy?
Do we?
What's wrong with who I am now?
Maya, the world has one of me,
the world needs one of you.
My voice is still
my voice, Riley.
You're gonna need to show me
a lot more than clothes
and hair and a boy
before I believe that it isn't.
You want me to go home?
I'll go home.
Monet's Water Lilies.
One of the great works
of impressionism.
But when you stand here...
All you see
are splotches of paint.
As you begin to step back...
Masterpiece.
A painting can sometimes
be recognized for what
it truly is
by a change in perspective.
This may also
be true with people.
I owe you
an apology, Ms. Hart.
Everybody does.
Took another
look at your piece.
Your work is absolutely
saying something.
And when I took
a step back...
You haven't lost your voice.
You're screaming, Ms. Hart.
Maya...
Look... it-- it's a purple cat.
-She's me.
-I know.
I always wanted to be her,
and now she's me.
-I know.
-Nobody ever
gets what they want.
I know.
We have our share
of blame for this.
Nobody is to blame for this.
I've only ever benefited
from the things you guys
have taught me.
I'm lucky to know you.
Ma, they messed me up.
Yeah, I know, babygirl.
I gotta pay attention.
Once you start painting
purple cats,
-can you ever get out?
-No.
I'm her. I'm gone.
That's too bad.
I've always looked forward
to seeing who the real Maya Hart
turns out to be.
So have I.
You gonna take that
away from us?
Thunder.
Lightning.
Help me.
What's going on?
We're sneaking out.
I'm so proud of you.
-Where are you going?
-Who knows?
Okay.
-No!
Yes.
Where do you
think they're going?
I think they're
on an adventure
to help my daughter
find her voice.
Oh, good. An adventure.
Were we invited?
No.
How come I never
get invited to nuttin'?
I made my decision!
What are you doing in my house?
I came through the window with
a big, important announcement.
But no one was there.
Where are they?
They're gone. Forget 'em.
Tell us.
No!
Sit down and spill it, Chuckie!
Okay.
Here's who I picked.